What Dreams May Come

Brine and wind mix, coat the rot wood with a polish that dulls. Overhead the light bleakly stares, permeates, makes it hard to see. I'm laying on a concrete bench, staring back at the oppressive expanse. What little I can see contains no meaning, there are no clouds, just blotches on the background. It smells sterile.
I couldn't tell you why, but I'm lying on that bench against my will. Someone put me here, distracted me from my routine, took something from me, and now I'm sitting here looking. I'm not remembering, I'm not seeing. I'm about as dead as it gets.
As I peer into the blue abyss, one of the blotches sweats a shadow. Small at first, it grows into the shape of a bird, and flies across the light. I blink. The shadow has broken my concentration, thoughtless as it was. I lick my lips to find them numb and tasteless. I sit up and look around me. It's a pier, and I'm near the end of it. My end is barricaded with solemn vertical bars of cold metal, and beyond those bars I can see the remnant of what used to be full extent of the pier. Rotten thick poles stuck in the ocean like splinters, stretching on for longer than I care to look.
I find a thick orange mist obscuring the shoreward side of the pier. I can see a flat yellow shore, but it's too far and too bright to make out any features. I stand up and feel the breeze gather strength against me. To the wind I'm a target now, no longer part of the scenery. There's a coin-op telescope next to the bench, but I don't have any money. I walk to the metal bars keeping me from the ocean and I notice there's markings on each. Graffiti, scratched with a coin probably. I can't make out what most of it is, but there's one part I can read: “CARSON + JENNY <3”.
Jenny.
Jenny sounds familiar.
Who is Carson?
I could feel the bird above grow into a shadow as it circled the light. It grows and widens and engulfs the pier, and I dilate with it into the darkness.

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

I awake to the sound of a fishing line being cast off, though I'm not sure I was sleeping. There's a man near me with a boating cap and camo fatigues manipulating the fishing pole, and I can't make out his features underneath the shade of his hat, but I can tell he's looking at me sideways. There's nothing else to look at.
“Just getting up? It's nearly twlight”, he says.
I squint around, the light is blinding.
“Twilight?”, with a note of groggy annoyance, “It's mid-day”.
“I grant you, it's bright, but twilight is more the time between light and darkness than it is darkness itself.”
His voice was effluent and floral, like vaguely Mediterranean music.
“So you're telling me it'll get dark soon?”
“Not necessarily, just that soon it will be between dark and light.”
My face is screwed up so much by squinting I don't think he notices my consternation at his obtuseness. His accent was a strange protean mix, like nothing I'd heard.
“Where you from?”
“Me? I am an immigrant.”
“Where from?”
“No, sir. I am not an em-i-grant.”, he pronounces didactically. “I did not come from anywhere. I am an im-mi-grant. Wherever I am is not home for me.”
“What? Homeless?”
“I have a home but it is not here.”
His accent seems to change every time I smell its source, just as elusive as his answers.
“Then what brings you here?”
“I am here to help you, Carson.”, his voice was no longer floral, but had hardened to a rasp.
I stare at the figure before me, who had still not faced me. He knows me. He called me Carson, and when he said the name it defined me like a vice grip. I am Carson.
So if I am Carson, then...
“Who is Jenny?”
He was smiling in the shadow, a schoolyard bully who has discovered knowledge can be used to damage, too.
“You know there haven't been fish in these waters for some time, my friend. These waters used to be teeming with fish and ideas and boats, and now they give shelter to nothing of value. They curdle good things, they poison life itself. But they did not learn this poisonous art by themselves. No. These waters were taught to poison by a man you have met and presume to know.”
As he speaks he tilts his head into the light for me to see his face. It's a handsome, gruesome face, much younger than his voice belies.
“This is not my usual attire, but I thought it might jog your memory a little”, he flings to the sea in half-laughter.
I don't know how but I know that face. It is a face I trust.
“Who the hell are you?”
“I am Janus, porter, my services are yours, if you so desire it, which you do.” His voice had taken on once again the budding precocity of the obsequiant.
“What the hell would I do with a porter, there aren't any doors here, I don't have any luggage.”
“Ah, but perhaps the first function of my job would be to show you the doors? And when you perceive them, then I could proceed to my main function: helping you choose which door to enter.”
While he speaks he gesticulates expressively, nearly knocking his unfastened fishing pole off the wooden railings. And yet the whole time he faces out to the water as if presenting to it, only glancing sideways at me, like a master actor demonstrating for an understudy.
“And perhaps”, he continues, “perhaps once you see the enormity of the decision before you, then you shall find a porter a very useful companion indeed.”
I get up and stretch. The hours(?) of hard concrete had left their indelible mark on me, and if I had extremities, my brain was unaware of them. The feeling came back into my parts, but they still felt like artifice, like this Janus.
He doesn't add up.
“Why are you fishing if there's no fish here then?”
“I am not fishing for fish, my friend, rather something much less nutritious.”
I give it up, it's not worth wasting time with these riddles.
“Besides”, he says, “I should ask you what you are doing here. You are not watching the waters, nor the shore. You seem to have questions for me, why don't you answer me just this: why are you here?”
Why? I don't even know how long I've been here. The rhythmic pulse of light above forbids me asking such questions. A cheap longing for this pier is all I have in answer. This palace of solitude, this plank along which I pace above poison waters, this is my refuge. The refugee and the immigrant stare parallel at the opalescent horizon.
Despite my quiescence, Janus knows the answer. I'm hiding here, but I don't know from what. For as long as I've been here, I've been safe. I assume.
But the why still eludes me. I need to know what I'm hiding from. It could be Janus himself for all I know, and this is all arrogant theatrics before the coup de grace.
If I have been here long, no doubt I would have made my mark on the pier as a reminder of vigilance.
I surreptitious run my fingertip along the wood railing and read with it the carvings. They feel like adolescent love notes, tender valleys in the ripe planks. I crouch down, pretending still to stretch my ankles in a deep squat. But still the language is illegible to me. Except one marking, scratched brutal with fingernails, dried blood punctuating the meaning: “THE PATIENT IS UNRESPONSIVE”.
I recoil at the sight.
Something's not right.
This place isn’t safe.
Janus seemingly minds his fishing pole, noticing nothing of my reaction. I get up and shake him.
“What the hell is this place? What am I hiding from?”
His hat falls off, and his face is glittering patches of scar tissue and patches of wire where hair should be. His cry is that of pain as he retreats underneath his jacket and dives for his cap. The body stays doubled over for a long time while the hyperventilation subsides. I notice he smells of tarmac and fishbait this close, and his fatigues are covered in some kind of slippery gloss that gives him a reptilian sheen. 
Underneath the pile of mouldy cloth a whisper, “You should not have done that.”
He rises slowly, fitting himself once again into a human form.
For some reason his face does not surprise me. The handsome, trustworthy visage I had seen earlier had melted over the scaffold it was draped, but rather than alarm me, it strangely reassured me that I was right about Janus.
“Now let’s try that again. Who are you and why am I here?”, I say, calm.
“My duty is to help you leave this place, by one door or the other. And you are here because of Jenny. Here in this...well one would equivocate to call it even a place. You are between life and death, Carson. On one end of the pier”, he gestures towards the open sea, “lies death. On the other”, now to land, “lies life. I am to speed your journey, in whichever direction you choose. And speed we must, as soon the decision will be made for you.”
Between life and death. The pier, so close to both, yet familiar to me. I’ve been here awhile, not recognizing the dilemma before me. Or maybe I did before realize what this place is, maybe many times, and instead of choosing I lay in the sun, waiting for the choice to be made.
But the markings, I made these markings. Though so many have been blurred by time and decay, I wrote these to myself. Cave paintings with instructions to escape the deep bosom of the earth, or to ease the fall into it. A dictation of phrases overheard underwater, distorted often past recognition.
“You see, Carson, this pier is an observation platform for the immensity of you. You often came here when you slept, using that”, he points towards the coin-op telescope, “to view your life from afar and remember the most important moments. You wrote your diary on the pier itself using whatever you could find. There are countless love notes among the scratches along this pier. And there are countless moments of shame and fear inscribed here as well.”
I look over at the scratches on the railing, and they become clearer as he speaks. There are stories of Jenny and I first feeling love for each other, moving in together, getting married. But there are also stories of her disappearing for days, calling me to post her bond (she still owes me $2000, per the wood), and trying to escape from the incubus that possessed her, turned her to a spitting wreck. The incubus spelled heroin.



